## Response 1: Voice your concerns to management and/or the worker

**Pros:**

- Gets the proper parties involved for good evaluation
- Expresses the severity of the situation to the worker
- May enforce needed regulations for deploying important work

**Cons:**

- Worker relationship may be negatively affected
- May not be seen as trustworthy

**Script:**

*Me:* “Hey, I noticed that some of your work seemed to be heavily generated by AI. Did you use AI for all of this code?”

*Worker:* “I used it for the majority of it, yeah.”

*Me:* “Well, with such important code, I think it is crucial that it be made with a thorough understanding of its intricacies, and an AI can’t do that. I am concerned about this, and I would like to talk to you and to management about it. I don’t mean any harm; I just want to make sure it is fully ready to deploy.”

*Worker:* “Okay. Let me know if you find a time.”

**Scripture:**

>Galatians 6:1-2 [ESV]: “Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.”

**Principle 1:** As Christians, we need to hold each other accountable whenever we stray into sin. This includes everyone, especially when some harm towards others is at risk.

## Response 2: Tell the worker to redo, or at least thoroughly filter through, the work
**Pros:**
- Will make the worker do the work properly and thoughtfully
- Will make the worker understand the code

**Cons:**
- Will add a lot of time
- Worker may have hard feelings
- May be a difficult conversation to have with management

**Script:**

*Me:* “Hey, I noticed that some of your work seemed to be heavily generated by AI. Did you use AI for all of this code?”

*Worker:* “I used it for the majority of it, yeah.”

*Me:* “This code is super important and needs to consider a lot of factors, and AI can’t do that. You need to redo it based off what you know and what you need to know. I can help you look through it and give you some tips and ideas, if you would like.”

*Worker:* “Okay, I get it. Yeah, I will take a look at it. I will let you know if I need help.”

**Scripture:**

>Hebrews 6:10 [ESV]: “For God is not unjust so as to overlook your work and the love that you have shown for his name in serving the saints, as you still do.”

**Principle 2:** Our work needs to honor God, so we need to produce good work. Pertaining to the other principle as well, we also need to hold each other accountable. This means that we should probably hold others accountable to producing good work rather than leaving behind back work.

## Response 3: Do nothing
**Pros:**
- Adds no extra time to the project
- Maintains relationship with worker
- Boosts company morale on worker

**Cons:**
- Risks significant issues that may come with the code
- Does not hold the worker accountable or express the risks
- May cause future trustworthiness problems

**Script:**

*Me:* “Hey, I noticed that some of your work seemed to be heavily generated by AI. Did you use AI for all of this code?”

*Worker:* “I used it for the majority of it, yeah.”

*Me:* “Well, I don’t think you should have used it so much so that you don’t get it, but as long as it works, I think it will be okay.”

*Worker:* “Yeah, I understand. This will be a big step for the company, though, so that’s good.”

**Scripture:**

> 1 Peter 5:7 [ESV]: “Casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you.”

**Principle 3:** There comes a point where we need to let go of what anxieties and grudges we hold on to. Sometimes, it is best to just let people learn the hard way. Of course, we still need to pray about it and ask God for advice on whether this is the right move or not.

## Conclusion:
I am a “as long as it works, then it’s probably fine” type guy. I totally understand what the worker was trying to do and why he did it the way he did. Especially if he did not receive much guidance or resources, it may be difficult for him to develop efficiently if he is not properly equipped. This does not mean, however, that I will not produce good, thorough work. I still try to make sure that my work is done properly and with good quality. So, as in all things, there must be a balance between these two sides. There will never be a time where we know everything, so we do need to use up some good resources that will help us along the way. We cannot, however, neglect our necessity to learn and grow. In this case, it seems that the worker does not care much about learning the code, which is not good.

## My Choice:
Ultimately, the worker’s finished product is not up to me, but I still have a responsibility in holding him accountable. That is why I would likely choose response 1. I still involve the proper parties for the situation, but I am also able to stay out of it for the most part. Yes, I might seem like a tattle tale, but sometimes that is necessary to prevent some major risks from coming into fruition. 
